mexico 1997 a young fisherman is loading
up his small boat with supplies
he's about to sail to his favorite
little island it's far off
peaceful scenic and there's plenty of
delicious fish to catch
it usually takes him a couple of hours
to get there it's a good ways off the
coast
but today something's not right he keeps
sailing
more hours pass than days he can't find
his familiar paradise
the fisherman certainly wasn't lost he
made the usual trip so many times
he could sail there in his sleep the
island seemingly just
disappeared bermeja island is
was located off the north coast of the
yucatan peninsula
in the gulf of mexico about the size of
san marino
it was well known and had been on many
maps since the 16th century
over four centuries countless fishermen
and travelers from around the world
talked of the island's distinct red
coast bermea means
reddish orange in spanish search
expeditions started not long after its
disappearance
a notable one being in 2009
some believe the island was flooded
because of the melting ice caps rising
the sea levels
others think the island was destroyed
deliberately
it remains a mystery to this day but
here's the strange part
bermeja is by far not alone islands
appear on some maps
and disappear on others some consider
these lands a bad sign for sailors
others viewed them as salvation during a
storm
the very first mention of an island
disappearing from the face of the earth
was in the year 360 bce the very last
was recent enough to be captured on
google maps
you've probably heard of the first one
atlantis
plato wrote about it describing a rich
civilization with advanced technology
way ahead of his time after him many
other
famous philosophers and writers
described it as a paradise on earth
huge buildings with striking
architecture picturesque nature
people living in peace and harmony a
real utopia
until earthquakes and floods sank it to
the depths of the sea forever
before plato described it for the first
time there was not
a single mention of atlantis so until
some
undeniable evidence reveals itself it's
still
seen as mythical in 1558
a descendant of the famous 14th century
explorer nicolozino
published a map supposedly based on his
ancestors findings
it describes the island of frisland to
the south of iceland
many people search for this unheard of
place to build a new world on it
but it eluded their discovery for more
than a century
this island appeared on different maps
and almost always changed its location
historians later found out that the
descendant had lied about the island's
existence
sarah ann island a small piece many
explorers went looking for at the end of
the 19th century
it was believed to be covered with bird
droppings a highly valuable fertilizer
at that time
but in the end no one found it in 1937
astronomers searched for sarah anne
because it would have made a perfect
location for viewing a total solar
eclipse and again they found nothing
it might have never existed at all or it
could have been lost to the rising sea
now get this at the beginning of the
20th century
a huge piece of crockerland appeared on
maps north of greenland
this wasn't considered just a novel
island but a whole new continent
during his journey to the north pole
explorer robert perry discovered an
unknown land that wasn't marked on any
maps
perry had been on the northernmost
canadian island ellesmere
when he looked through his binoculars
and noticed white mountains stretching
across the horizon on a distant island
perry didn't have enough food and fuel
to sail there he had to turn around
a few years later a new expedition was
organized
it took researchers a long time and a
lot of money to find the land perry was
talking about
almost all supplies had run out and hope
was leaving the travelers
but then they saw those same mountain
peaks of an unknown
island sadly their joy soon turned to
dismay
when it turned out that this was not an
island but an illusion caused by
fog cold temperatures and sunlight
at a certain angle it looked like an
island but as you get closer
it changes its shape and disappears like
a mirage in the desert
there are dozens of such disappearing
islands some are
shrouded in mystery with questions left
unanswered like the bermija caves
plenty probably flooded and others were
created because of map maker mistakes
but there are entire archipelagos of
islands that appeared on maps
overnight and all at once this happened
to several islands in lake superior
filippo pontchartrain mauritius and
saint anne's
in the first half of the 18th century a
wealthy french statesman
jean-fredrique filippo count of moropus
funded the travels of a professional
explorer to please the count and thank
him for his financial support
this explorer mapped several islands he
discovered that were
thus considered the count's property and
named in his honor
for a century people believed in their
existence but when sailors reached the
island's coordinates
they found nothing but water turns out
the explorer had made the whole thing up
now
fast forward to the 21st century we have
extremely accurate gps navigation
advanced satellites modern science
there's no way
a phantom island could exist yet one did
randomly appear
in 2012. it's called sandy island
this present-day mysterious place is or
isn't
between australia and new caledonia in
the south pacific
according to the maps the island is
about the size of manhattan
not big by any means but still nothing
to scoff at
a whaling ship first discovered it in
in 1906 it was put on maps but by 1970
sandy island was removed because it was
nowhere to be seen during expeditions
there at that time
then it just reappeared on google maps
50 years later
a new expedition was sent and again
nothing but water was found there
maybe it just hides under the surface
that's what the researchers thought
so they used solar technology to explore
the deep sea
they didn't find any sunken island down
there either
turns out it had appeared on the online
map
because of an error when printed maps
were being digitalized
even now if you enter these coordinates
in google
you'll see a mysterious black spot
instead of a small piece of land
but how could a whaling ship see it back
in 1876
experts say what they saw was probably a
massive pumice
you see when lava comes out of volcanoes
and cools in the water
it forms buoyant stones with air inside
this pumice floats to the surface and
when there's enough of it in one spot
it looks like an island well i've spent
my whole life searching for these
phantoms
if you're reading this it means i've
succeeded
i'll put this letter in a bottle and
place it in the center of the island
you may find this message in the ocean
or maybe it'll float to a coast
if that happens you can be sure that the
island has disappeared